1. We are committed to providing a friendly, safe, and welcoming environment for all, regardless of level of experience, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, personal appearance, body size, race, ethnicity, age, religion, nationality, or other similar characteristic.
2. Please avoid using overtly sexual aliases or other nicknames that might detract from a friendly, safe, and welcoming environment for all.
3. Please be kind and courteous. There's no need to be mean or rude.
4. Respect people's differences of opinion and the fact that every design or implementation choice involves a trade-off and numerous costs. There is seldom a correct answer.
5. Please limit unstructured critique. If you have solid ideas you want to experiment with, make a fork and see how it works.
6. We will exclude you from interaction if you insult, demean, or harass anyone. That is not welcome behavior. We interpret the term "harassment" as including the definition in the Citizen Code of Conduct; if you lack clarity about what might be included in that concept, please read their definition. In particular, we don't tolerate behavior that excludes people in socially marginalized groups.
7. Private harassment is also unacceptable. No matter who you are, if you feel you have been or are being harassed or made uncomfortable by a community member, please get in touch with the administrators. Whether you're a regular contributor or a newcomer, we care about making this community safe and having your back.
8. Any spamming, trolling, flaming, baiting, or other attention-stealing behavior is unwelcome.
