offchain/components/relayer/README.md, before:

# Axelar-Solana Relayer

## Building

1. Fetch all git submodules.
```sh
$ git submodule update --remote
```

1. Compile the `relayer` package.
```sh
$ cargo build --release --package relayer
```

## Running

```sh
$ ./target/release/relayer
```

### Configuration

All the following environment variables must be set when running the Relayer:

- `RELAYER_DATABASE_URL`: PostgreSQL connection string to the Relayer database.
- `RELAYER_AXELAR_APPROVER_URL`: URL to the Amplifier API used to obtain approved messages
- `RELAYER_SOLANA_INCLUDER_RPC`: URL for the Solana JSON RPC endpoint used to submit transactions.
- `RELAYER_SOLANA_INCLUDER_KEYPAIR`: Keypair (private key) used to sign Solana transactions, in base58 format.
- `RELAYER_SENTINEL_GATEWAY_ADDRESS`: The address for the Solana Gateway, in base58 format.
- `RELAYER_SENTINEL_RPC`: URL for the Solana JSON RPC endpoint used to monitor the Gateway program.
- `RELAYER_VERIFIER_RPC`: URL for the Amplifier API used to verify messages originated from the Solana Gateway.
- `RELAYER_HEALTHCHECK_BIND_ADDR`: Socket address to be used by the health check HTTP server, in IPv4 or IPv6 format.

Commit message:

feat: refactor Relayer's Solana Includer component (#239)
* chore: includer module and connect its interface to the relayer core

* chore: wrap keypair in an Arc

* chore: layout includer and approver async execution

This code is mostly a duplicate of the Axelar-to-Solana transport. It
is a sign that we should make it generic.

* feat: implement calls to the Solana rpc

WIP: the actual workflow is still pending.

* feat: implement the main 'include' function

WIP: need to fetch gateway addresses from config.
Also, use Solana ProgramError inside error variants

* chore: fetch gateway address from config

* feat: add gateway_config_address to config

* chore: refactor includer execution

* ci: update target branch

* feat: persist the last processed Axelar block height

* feat: ensure axelar block height only increases

* fix: typo

* feat: includer stops on fatal errors only

* fix: don't log the error twice

* style: renamed and documented closure

* docs: fix typo

Co-authored-by: eloylp <eloylp@eloylp.dev>

* docs: t

Co-authored-by: eloylp <eloylp@eloylp.dev>

* feat: process incoming messages concurrently

* style: reorder comment and remove whitespace

---------

Co-authored-by: eloylp <eloylp@eloylp.dev>

offchain/components/relayer/README.md, after:

# Axelar-Solana Relayer

## Building

1. Fetch all git submodules.
```sh
$ git submodule update --remote
```

1. Compile the `relayer` package.
```sh
$ cargo build --release --package relayer
```

## Running

```sh
$ ./target/release/relayer
```

### Configuration

All the following environment variables must be set when running the Relayer:

- `RELAYER_DATABASE_URL`: PostgreSQL connection string to the Relayer database.
- `RELAYER_AXELAR_APPROVER_URL`: URL to the Amplifier API used to obtain approved messages
- `RELAYER_SOLANA_INCLUDER_RPC`: URL for the Solana JSON RPC endpoint used to submit transactions.
- `RELAYER_SOLANA_INCLUDER_KEYPAIR`: Keypair (private key) used to sign Solana transactions, in base58 format.
- `RELAYER_SENTINEL_GATEWAY_ADDRESS`: The address for the Solana Gateway, in base58 format.
- `RELAYER_SENTINEL_GATEWAY_CONFIG_ADDRESS`: The address for the Solana Gateway Root configuration PDA , in base58 format.
- `RELAYER_SENTINEL_RPC`: URL for the Solana JSON RPC endpoint used to monitor the Gateway program.
- `RELAYER_VERIFIER_RPC`: URL for the Amplifier API used to verify messages originated from the Solana Gateway.
- `RELAYER_HEALTHCHECK_BIND_ADDR`: Socket address to be used by the health check HTTP server, in IPv4 or IPv6 format.
