# axelard v1.3.0

|                | **Owner**                             |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| **Created By** | @chipshort <christoph@interoplabs.io> |
| **Deployment** |                                       |

| **Network**          | **Deployment Status** | **Date**   |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | ---------- |
| **Devnet Amplifier** | Completed             | 2025-11-24 |
| **Stagenet**         | -                     | TBD        |
| **Testnet**          | -                     | TBD        |
| **Mainnet**          | -                     | TBD        |

[Release TBD](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-core/releases/tag/v1.3.0)

## Background

Changes in the release:

- Updates Cosmos SDK to v0.50, WasmD to v0.54, WasmVM to v2.2, CometBFT to v0.38, also updates various other dependencies.
- The governance module now uses the new message-based governance proposals
- Clients interacting with Axelar need to be updated to use the new protobuf messages. This includes ampd!
- Some of the Cosmos SDK modules include in-place storage migrations
- New `x/consensus` module has been added to the SDK, which is used to manage consensus parameters.
- Performance improvements: we're reducing the block time
- All block-based params have to be increased accordingly. Most have been [increased in a migration][param-pr],
  but some need to be updated after the upgrade.

## Migrate CosmWasm Contracts

Migrate Multisig contract and all Voting Verifier contracts to increase poll/signing block expiry values to account for faster block times. See [Amplifier Contracts Migration Guide](../cosmwasm/2025-11-Cosmos-SDK-v0.50-amplifier-contracts-migration-guide.md).

## Deployment Steps for Axelar Maintainers

1. Submit upgrade proposal and vote on upgrade proposal. Roughly like this:

    ```bash
    axelard tx gov submit-proposal \
         software-upgrade "v1.3" \
         --upgrade-height $upgradeHeight \
         --deposit ${govProposalDepositAmount}uaxl \
         --description "This proposal is intended to upgrade axelar core to v1.3" \
         --title "Axelar v1.3" \
         --from validator --gas auto --gas-adjustment 1.2

     axelard tx gov vote ${proposalId} yes \
        --from validator --gas auto --gas-adjustment 1.5
    ```

2. Inform all validators about the upgrade and upgrade height.
3. Wait for proposal to pass.
4. When upgrade height is reached, follow the steps for Axelar Validators below to upgrade our nodes.

### Post-Upgrade Checklist for Maintainers

- [ ] Testing
    - [ ] General testing: GMP calls, IBC transfers, key rotation
    - [ ] Ensure new `UpdateParams` message works in new message-based proposals as expected. To check this, submit a proposal to change a parameter for one of our modules.
    - [ ] Test Rosetta API is working. To do this, a rosetta checker needs to be spun up and run against one of the nodes. Haiyi and Steven can help with this.
- [ ] Post-Upgrade parameter updates:
    - [ ] Monitor actual block time in production to assess whether [block-based param updates][param-pr] were accurate or if we need to adjust them again.
    - [ ] Update the `slashing` module's `signed_blocks_window` according to the new block time (i.e. if block time is 5x lower, then `signed_blocks_window` should be 5x higher).
    - [ ] Update the `mint` module's `blocks_per_year` to the new value based on how fast the block production is.

[param-pr]: https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-core/pull/2282

## Deployment Steps for Axelar Validators

### Prerequisites

- If building from source, use Go 1.25
- libwasmvm has been updated from `v1.5.8` to `v2.2.4`, make sure to update the dependency if you are using the `axelard` binary.
- Prepare to [update ampd to 1.13.1] at the same time

[update ampd to 1.13.1]: ../ampd/2025-11-17-ampd-v1.13.1.md

### Upgrade Process

1. Wait for upgrade height to be reached.
2. Stop the node and ampd.
3. Lower the `timeout_commit` config in `.axelar/config/config.toml` from `5s` to `1s`.
4. Restart the node and ampd with the new binaries. Please note that the migration will take a while to complete (~1h on testnet)
5. If you are running a relayer (e.g. hermes), you might need to restart it as well.

### Post-Deployment Checklist

- [ ] Verify that nodes are producing new blocks after the upgrade.

## Troubleshooting

### App Hash Error

If you encounter hash error ensure you have libwasm v2.2.4 which can be obtained from https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmvm/releases/download/v2.2.4/libwasmvm.x86_64.so. Before restarting node:

1. Ensure system environment variable `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` is specified to correct location if using binary. For docker image no change is necessary.

## Update Reward Pools

Update all reward pools to account for faster block time. See [Amplifier Contracts Migration Guide](../cosmwasm/2025-11-Cosmos-SDK-v0.50-amplifier-contracts-migration-guide.md).

## Ensure Cosmos SDK Version is updated in `axelar-contract-deployments` Config

[Example](https://github.com/axelarnetwork/axelar-contract-deployments/blob/e95530efba9cd1863375201ec6b4760004840951/axelar-chains-config/info/devnet-amplifier.json#L1814)
